
| CS-665       | Software Design & Patterns |
|--------------|----------------------------|
| Name         | Jacob Kustra               |
| Date         | 10/31/2023                 |
| Course       | Fall                       |
| Assignment # | 3                          |

# Assignment Overview
For Assignment 3, my goal was to create a program in which I could generate
customized emails to send to customers depending on what customer type they are.
This allowed for each customer group to have different email subjects, intros, 
bodies and even signatures that can be customized to ensure the best 
customer-email relationship.

# Assignment Assumptions
The assumptions I made for this assignment were that the user is the company 
that has the customer email within their own separate database. Additionally,
when running the program through main.java, the program allows for each individual
customers email to be typed in, and then generated by whatever type they user of
the program deems them to be. This allows for the ultimate level of customization
for the emails and makes it so no direct customer data needs to be managed here.
Finally, my last assumption was that this would be done individually per each customer
as it needs to be sent to their specific email and will continue to loop, until the user
decides they no longer want to send any additional emails.

# GitHub Repository Link:
https://github.com/JacobKustra/cs-665-assignment-3

# Implementation Description 
For this assignment, the main user input was implemented in an easy way under the email
generator class, which sets it up in a way for the customers email to be typed out, then the
user will select which customer type that specific customer fits into, which then will 
take that given information to generate an instance of that customer type, using the provided
email address and then generate a combined specific email which will then be printed out 
in an easily readable way.

For each assignment, please answer the following:

- Explain the level of flexibility in your implementation, including how new object types can
be easily added or removed in the future.
  - My implementation allows for ease of use and maintenance in the future as more object types need
  to be added in. The way this is possible is through my separation of not only the general parent
  class which contains the basic email template, but also making it so each individual customer type
  edits those parts of the email to allow it to be fully customizable. Any additional customer type 
  can be added by following the same format as the ones already created, simply by creating a new
  child class.

- Discuss the simplicity and understandability of your implementation, ensuring that it is
easy for others to read and maintain.
  - My program is very simple to understand and maintain. In general when a user wants to edit a
  specific customer type email, they simply navigate to that customer type class and make the 
  changes. For any email template changes, they go to the class called EmailTemplate, and finally
  to make any changes to the user input, they go to the EmailGenerator class. All of these allow 
  for quick and easy maintenance along with intuitive understanding of what is found in each class.

- Describe how you have avoided duplicated code and why it is important.
  - I avoided duplicated code through the use of parent and child classes, in which the customer 
  types use the basic EmailTemplate variables and make adjustments accordingly to allow for 
  customization. In order to make this work, I used the Factory Method pattern which allowed for 
  the easy to use interface without the need for duplicated code.

- If applicable, mention any design patterns you have used and explain why they were
chosen.
  - I implemented the Factory Method design pattern here in this assignment which allowed for me
  to create a simple/easy-to-use interface for the end user which allowed for quick "ordering" of
  customized emails based on the selected customer type, which then would create an instance of
  that customer type in order to get the customized email generated.


# Maven Commands

We'll use Apache Maven to compile and run this project. You'll need to install Apache Maven (https://maven.apache.org/) on your system. 

Apache Maven is a build automation tool and a project management tool for Java-based projects. Maven provides a standardized way to build, package, and deploy Java applications.

Maven uses a Project Object Model (POM) file to manage the build process and its dependencies. The POM file contains information about the project, such as its dependencies, the build configuration, and the plugins used for building and packaging the project.

Maven provides a centralized repository for storing and accessing dependencies, which makes it easier to manage the dependencies of a project. It also provides a standardized way to build and deploy projects, which helps to ensure that builds are consistent and repeatable.

Maven also integrates with other development tools, such as IDEs and continuous integration systems, making it easier to use as part of a development workflow.

Maven provides a large number of plugins for various tasks, such as compiling code, running tests, generating reports, and creating JAR files. This makes it a versatile tool that can be used for many different types of Java projects.

## Compile
Type on the command line: 

```bash
mvn clean compile
```



## JUnit Tests
JUnit is a popular testing framework for Java. JUnit tests are automated tests that are written to verify that the behavior of a piece of code is as expected.

In JUnit, tests are written as methods within a test class. Each test method tests a specific aspect of the code and is annotated with the @Test annotation. JUnit provides a range of assertions that can be used to verify the behavior of the code being tested.

JUnit tests are executed automatically and the results of the tests are reported. This allows developers to quickly and easily check if their code is working as expected, and make any necessary changes to fix any issues that are found.

The use of JUnit tests is an important part of Test-Driven Development (TDD), where tests are written before the code they are testing is written. This helps to ensure that the code is written in a way that is easily testable and that all required functionality is covered by tests.

JUnit tests can be run as part of a continuous integration pipeline, where tests are automatically run every time changes are made to the code. This helps to catch any issues as soon as they are introduced, reducing the need for manual testing and making it easier to ensure that the code is always in a releasable state.

To run, use the following command:
```bash
mvn clean test
```


## Spotbugs 

SpotBugs is a static code analysis tool for Java that detects potential bugs in your code. It is an open-source tool that can be used as a standalone application or integrated into development tools such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, and Gradle.

SpotBugs performs an analysis of the bytecode generated from your Java source code and reports on any potential problems or issues that it finds. This includes things like null pointer exceptions, resource leaks, misused collections, and other common bugs.

The tool uses data flow analysis to examine the behavior of the code and detect issues that might not be immediately obvious from just reading the source code. SpotBugs is able to identify a wide range of issues and can be customized to meet the needs of your specific project.

Using SpotBugs can help to improve the quality and reliability of your code by catching potential bugs early in the development process. This can save time and effort in the long run by reducing the need for debugging and fixing issues later in the development cycle. SpotBugs can also help to ensure that your code is secure by identifying potential security vulnerabilities.

Use the following command:

```bash
mvn spotbugs:gui 
```

For more info see 
https://spotbugs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/maven.html

SpotBugs https://spotbugs.github.io/ is the spiritual successor of FindBugs.


## Checkstyle 

Checkstyle is a development tool for checking Java source code against a set of coding standards. It is an open-source tool that can be integrated into various integrated development environments (IDEs), such as Eclipse and IntelliJ, as well as build tools like Maven and Gradle.

Checkstyle performs static code analysis, which means it examines the source code without executing it, and reports on any issues or violations of the coding standards defined in its configuration. This includes issues like code style, code indentation, naming conventions, code structure, and many others.

By using Checkstyle, developers can ensure that their code adheres to a consistent style and follows best practices, making it easier for other developers to read and maintain. It can also help to identify potential issues before the code is actually run, reducing the risk of runtime errors or unexpected behavior.

Checkstyle is highly configurable and can be customized to fit the needs of your team or organization. It supports a wide range of coding standards and can be integrated with other tools, such as code coverage and automated testing tools, to create a comprehensive and automated software development process.

The following command will generate a report in HTML format that you can open in a web browser. 

```bash
mvn checkstyle:checkstyle
```

The HTML page will be found at the following location:
`target/site/checkstyle.html`




